MICCAI 2012

Reviews of submission #687: "Group Study Of Resting-State fMRI by
Hierarchical Markov Random Field"

------------------------ Submission 687, Review 1 ------------------------

Reviewer:           External

Relevance of the contribution

   3  (acceptable)

Originality

   4  (good )

Soundness

   3  (acceptable)

Clarity of presentation

   4  (good)

Review: Summary

   This paper presents a generative model for group analysis of
   resting-state functional connectivity. The model has a hierarchical
   latent structure, consisting of a population label map, which gives rise
   to individual subject labels. In both cases, a Markov random field is
   placed over the labels to enforce spatial smoothness. The fMRI time
   courses are generated independently from the subject labels according to
   a von Mises Fisher distribution. Inference consists of an EM-like
   algorithm which alternates between drawing samples from the latent
   posterior distribution and updating the model parameters. The results are
   good on both synthetic and in vivo data.

Review : General Opinion

   This paper is well-organized and well-written. It presents an interesting
   formulation, which I have not seen in the literature. The figures are
   clear and informative. The major drawback of this paper is the inference
   section. There is either a bug in the derivation, or it was written up
   incorrectly in the paper. Also, given the dimensionality of this problem,
   the run time of Gibbs sampling is too high for practical use. Overall, I
   believe this model should be presented. Conditional on the appropriate
   edits in the inference section, I recommend this paper for acceptance
   into MICCAI.

Review : Explanation of Recommendation

   I have three concerns about the inference section:

   1) As it is written, the sampling procedure in Algorithm 1 is wrong.
   2) The Gibbs samples may not be sufficiently far apart (I cannot tell
   from the text).
   3) The pseudo likelihood section is confusing and unneccessary.

   The traditional EM framework alternates between updating the latent
   posterior (in this case P(Y|X;\Theta)) given the model parameters \Theta
   and updating the model parameters by maximizing E[log P(X,Y;\Theta)],
   where the expectation is taken over the posterior for Y. The Gibbs
   sampling procedure should be obtaining samples from P(Y|X;\Theta).
   However, in Algorithm 1, it seems like the authors are obtaining samples
   from the prior P(Y). In this case, the samples do not depend on the data
   X. Hence, updating the model parameters does not change the sampling
   distribution for Y. Perhaps the authors meant to sample y^j_s from the
   product p(y^j_s|y_N(s))p(x^j_s|y_s) rather than from just
   p(y^j_s|y_N(s))? If not, this is a serious flaw in the algorithm.

   Second, the text is unclear about how the samples are collected. In
   particular, is there a burn in B just at the begining, or are there
   additional burn-ins between samples Y^m, Y^(m+1)? If it is the former,
   then once again, this is a serious flaw. Consecutive Y's are heavily
   dependent on each other and do not represent independent samples from the
   steady-state Markov chain. If it is the former, then the inference will
   probably be slow. Specifically, we are sampling y_s for each VOXEL in the
   group template and in each subject. Although the neighborhood structure
   allows for some parallelization, we still must perform several updates
   per iteration.

   Finally, I don't understand the purpose of the pseudo-likelihood section.
   In the typical EM formulation, the parameters are updated by maximizing
   E[log P(X,Y;\Theta)]. The partition function is an additive term in this
   expectation. Since it does not depend on the parameters, it is irrelevant
   to the algorithm.

   Minor point:

   While the synthetic experiment is a good sanity check, it does not
   validate the proposed approach over other methods. Namely, the synthetic
   data is generated according to the presented graphical model. Hence, the
   optimal solution is ML inference via the EM algorithm. K-means and N-Cuts
   make different assumptions about the data and will not perform as well.
   This point should be emphasized in the paper.

Type of presentation ?





------------------------ Submission 687, Review 2 ------------------------

Reviewer:           External

Relevance of the contribution

   4  (good)

Originality

   4  (good )

Soundness

   4  (good )

Clarity of presentation

   4  (good)

Review: Summary

   This paper proposes a novel MRF-based approach for adding a group prior
   to functional network detection in handling the poor SNR in fMRI data.
   The proposed approach enables both intra-subject and group networks to be
   simultaneously identified. This contribution is innovative with promising
   results demonstrated. 

Review : General Opinion

   Relevance: The approach proposed in this paper is suitable for any
   medical applications that require clustering of features across a group
   of subjects, where certain intrinsic relationships are present between
   the features, e.g. local spatial correlations in the present work. This
   paper fits well into the theme of general medical image computing of
   MICCAI.

   Originality: Although the idea of incorporating group information into
   intra-subject fMRI analysis to handle low SNR has been previously
   proposed (e.g. [7] in the manuscript & [i] below), the approach taken in
   this work is quite different. In particular, MRF is used to pool
   information across subjects in estimating both intra-subject and group
   networks.

   [i] Ng, B., McKeown, M.J., Abugharbieh, R.: Group Replicator Dynamics: A
   Novel Group-Wise Evolutionary Approach for Sparse Brain Network
   Detection. IEEE Trans. Med. Imaging 31, 576—585 (2012)

   Soundness: The paper is technically sound. State-of-the-art methods are
   used to optimize the proposed MRF energy. A few technical details are
   missing, as discussed below.

   Clarity: The paper is well structured and clearly written. The abstract
   describes well the problem that the authors are trying to tackle and
   their strategy taken. All symbols are defined, and the figures and
   captions are clear (though Fig. 2 can be improved as discussed below).
   Except for the critical reference mentioned above, most relevant
   references to this work have been cited.

Review : Explanation of Recommendation

   Below is a list of suggestions to improve the paper:

   - In the Abstract, simply stating “especially for multiple subjects”
   does not convey whether detecting group networks or finding corresponding
   networks across subjects is challenging.
   - On page 1, the method in [3] is commonly referred to as “Group
   ICA”, not “Spatial ICA”. Spatial ICA is for finding independent
   spatial components (as opposed to independent time courses) within a
   subject, as proposed by McKeown et al. in 1998.
   - On page 2, it is mentioned that “there is no explicit statistical
   modeling of the variability between the group and subject component
   maps” but the proposed MRF approach does not seem to provide such
   modeling either. Given group and subject component maps, consistency
   analysis can be performed if desired. Hence, this statement should be
   revised to reflect that Group ICA does not simultaneously estimate
   intra-subject and group networks as a single optimization.
   - [i] above should be cited, since [i] is the first piece of work that
   integrates group information into intra-subject functional network
   detection.
   - On page 2, it is mentioned that all parameters are estimated from data,
   except the number of networks, but it appears that the model requires
   setting of hyperparameters: mu_alpha and sigma_alpha, which could have an
   impact on the results. The need for setting hyperparameters should be
   mentioned.
   - A particularly important attribute of Ng et al.’s work [7] is that
   their proposed group structure bypasses the need for a one-to-one voxel
   correspondence across subjects, in contrast to what was stated in the
   submission info. 
   - Please label the first equation on page 3. Also, Z^j should be H^j.
   - For the likelihood term, summing over S might not be correct since the
   group nodes do not have data associated with them. I believe it should be
   summing over H?
   - The authors should mention that the clustering of spatially distant
   voxels into networks is facilitated through the likelihood term (since
   the pairwise potential only accounts for local interactions). The
   mechanism for clustering distant voxels through the likelihood term
   should be explained.
   - Please discuss how hyperparameters: mu_alpha and sigma_alpha, are set,
   and how robust the results are to the choice of these hyperparameters.
   - Please briefly mention the optimality of the proposed optimization
   method. It seems that global optimality is not guaranteed in contrast to
   [7]. How robust are the results to initialization?
   - Please define “rand index”.
   - The larger clusters obtained with K-Means and N-Cuts, compared to
   groupmrf, might be due to the size of the spatial smoothing kernel used.
   Please describe how the kernel size was chosen. Also, please mention that
   smoothing was not performed when applying groupmrf because groupmrf
   intrinsically accounts for local spatial correlations by penalizing
   mismatch in labels between neighboring voxels.
   - Comparison against MRF without group prior should be performed to more
   clearly illustrate the benefits of incorporating group information.
   - The key results to be observed from Fig. 2 are not very clear. Please
   highlight the key differences that the readers should take notice.
   - The scalability of the proposed method should be briefly discussed.

Type of presentation ?





------------------------ Submission 687, Review 3 ------------------------

Reviewer:           External

Relevance of the contribution

   4  (good)

Originality

   4  (good )

Soundness

   3  (acceptable)

Clarity of presentation

   3  (acceptable)

Review: Summary

   This paper proposed a hierarchical MRF model to detect both group and
   individual functional networks. The problem was formulated into a Monte
   Carlo EM framework. 

Review : General Opinion

   The topic is highly relevant to miccai community. The methodology is
   novel, in the sense of adding spatial regularization into the model via
   MRF.  The presentation clarity is not satisfactory, and equation
   notations and figure captions need significant improvements (see below
   for details). 

Review : Explanation of Recommendation

    The reviewer has a couple of questions about the paper. 

   1.	What’s the influence of smoothing procedure towards Ncut and KMeans?

   2.	How the number of networks affects the performance of proposed model? 

   Minor Issues: 
   1.	In first Equation U(Y),  the last part for spatial coherence
   regularization : Z^j ,should be H^j . 
   2.	What is the Z in MRF prior?
   3.	xs pertains to S^p-1 , there’s no definition for either S or p.
   4.	Zs in the equation above eq(2)? 
   5.	Fig3. Top row: DMN, z=-8?

Type of presentation ?






